07_practical-details.md, before:

Title: Before the course
Date: 2014-10-27
Summary: Practical details
Sortorder: 007

# Important practical details

A large portion of the course (most of it actually) will be hands-on work, and
students are expected to bring a laptop with a wireless internet connection to
be able to practice as they learn. *Sparknet* and *eduroam* are available in
the Genetics seminar room. Please contact us beforehand if you don't have
access to a laptop for the course or if you don't have a *Sparknet* nor a
*eduroam* account.

The material taught is valid for Windows, Linux and MacOS systems. The students
are expected to have installed the necessary software on their machine before
they attend the course. System-specific instructions are usually found on the
software web sites:

- [Python](https://www.python.org/) and [Ipython](http://ipython.org/)
- [Git](http://git-scm.com/doc)
- a text editor with syntax highlighting such as
  [Notepad++](http://www.notepad-plus-plus.org/) for Windows or
  [Geany](http://www.geany.org/) for Linux (TODO: add a free software text
  editor for Mac?)
- [putty](http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/download.html) for
  remote connection to an ssh server using Windows
- [WinSCP](http://winscp.net/eng/index.php) or
  [Filezilla](https://filezilla-project.org/) for file transfer to a remote
  server

<!-- TODO: Check with CSC how it works to get students accounts -->

# Pre-assessment form

Please fill in and send the
[pre-assessment form]({filename}pre-assessment.md) before the course.

Commit message:

added info to Practial Details
- Python3 should be installed.
- Text editor and gui for sftp in Mac and Linux.

07_practical-details.md, after:

Title: Before the course
Date: 2014-10-27
Summary: Practical details
Sortorder: 007

# Important practical details

A large portion of the course (most of it actually) will be hands-on work, and
students are expected to bring a laptop with a wireless internet connection to
be able to practice as they learn. *Sparknet* and *eduroam* are available in
the Genetics seminar room. Please contact us beforehand if you don't have
access to a laptop for the course or if you don't have a *Sparknet* nor a
*eduroam* account.

The material taught is valid for Windows, Linux and MacOS systems. The students
are expected to have installed the necessary software on their machine before
they attend the course. System-specific instructions are usually found on the
software web sites:

- [Python](https://www.python.org/) (install the version 3.4.3) and [Ipython](http://ipython.org/)
- [Git](http://git-scm.com/doc) is a command line program for version control of software.
- a text editor with syntax highlighting such as
  [Notepad++](http://www.notepad-plus-plus.org/) for Windows or
  [Geany](http://www.geany.org/) for Linux, Sublime Text can be installed on
  Windows, Mac OSX and Linux computers (it is free if you install it for evaluation,
  and there is not time limit for the evaluation period).
- Windows users: [putty](http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/download.html) for
  remote connection to an ssh server using Windows. Mac OSX and Linux users already 
  have a console/terminal with such capability.
- Windows users: Window[WinSCP](http://winscp.net/eng/index.php) for file 
  transfer to a remote server. Windows, Mac OSX and Linux users might use 
  [Filezilla](https://filezilla-project.org/).

<!-- TODO: Check with CSC how it works to get students accounts -->

# Pre-assessment form

Please fill in and send the
[pre-assessment form]({filename}pre-assessment.md) before the course.
