website_pelican/content/pages/050_resources.md, before:

Title: Resources
Date: 2014-10-22
Summary: Links to online resources
Sortorder: 050

These are online resources of interest for people attending the course.

# Programming

## Software Carpentry

- [Project aiming at improving software skills of scientists for better research](http://software-carpentry.org/)

## General Python material

- [The official documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/)
- [A list of courses](https://wiki.python.org/moin/PythonTraining)

## Testing

- [Continuous integration testing with Travis](https://travis-ci.org/).

## Debugging

- [A good resource](http://blog.ionelmc.ro/2013/06/05/python-debugging-tools/)

## Writing documentation

- [Automatic documentation on the web with Read the Docs](https://readthedocs.org/)

## Python module packaging

- [Submitting packages to the Python Package Index](https://pypi.python.org/)

## Programmer skills

- [A programmer skill matrix](http://sijinjoseph.com/programmer-competency-matrix/)
- [Another view on programmer skills evolution](http://www.wayland-informatics.com/The%20Seven%20Stages%20of%20Expertise%20in%20Software.htm)
  
# Version control

## Git documentation

- [Git website](http://git-scm.com/)
- [The Pro Git book by Scott Chacon](http://git-scm.com/book)
- [The reference manual](http://git-scm.com/docs)
- [Git graphical user interfaces](http://git-scm.com/download/gui/linux)

## Workflows

- [Using Git with Dropbox](http://blog.shvetsov.com/2013/04/using-git-with-dropbox.html)
- [Using Dropbox as a private GitHub](http://jetheis.com/blog/2013/02/17/using-dropbox-as-a-private-github/)
- [What you should not do](http://xkcd.com/1296/)

# Website preparation

Software Carpentry has a [GitHub repository](https://github.com/swcarpentry/bc)
which explains how to generate a website and host it on GitHub.
[Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/), which is the static site generator of choice
for GitHub, is written in Ruby, but
[Pelican](http://docs.getpelican.com/en/3.4.0/index.html) is a good alternative
written in Python for that. It uses [Pygments](http://pygments.org/) for code
syntax highlighting. A detailed explanation about how to publish on GitHub with
Pelican is available [here](http://docs.getpelican.com/en/3.4.0/tips.html).

# Course already existing at Utu

There is a Master's program at UTU on
[Bioinformatics](https://nettiopsu.utu.fi/opas/tutkintoOhjelma.htm?rid=22413&uiLang=fi&lang=en&lvv=2014).
It seems that there is no course on "best-practices" such as version control or
unittesting.

Commit message:

Update part about Turku bioinformatic Master's

website_pelican/content/pages/050_resources.md, after:

Title: Resources
Date: 2014-10-22
Summary: Links to online resources
Sortorder: 050

These are online resources of interest for people attending the course.

# Programming

## Software Carpentry

- [Project aiming at improving software skills of scientists for better research](http://software-carpentry.org/)

## General Python material

- [The official documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/)
- [A list of courses](https://wiki.python.org/moin/PythonTraining)

## Testing

- [Continuous integration testing with Travis](https://travis-ci.org/).

## Debugging

- [A good resource](http://blog.ionelmc.ro/2013/06/05/python-debugging-tools/)

## Writing documentation

- [Automatic documentation on the web with Read the Docs](https://readthedocs.org/)

## Python module packaging

- [Submitting packages to the Python Package Index](https://pypi.python.org/)

## Programmer skills

- [A programmer skill matrix](http://sijinjoseph.com/programmer-competency-matrix/)
- [Another view on programmer skills evolution](http://www.wayland-informatics.com/The%20Seven%20Stages%20of%20Expertise%20in%20Software.htm)
  
# Version control

## Git documentation

- [Git website](http://git-scm.com/)
- [The Pro Git book by Scott Chacon](http://git-scm.com/book)
- [The reference manual](http://git-scm.com/docs)
- [Git graphical user interfaces](http://git-scm.com/download/gui/linux)

## Workflows

- [Using Git with Dropbox](http://blog.shvetsov.com/2013/04/using-git-with-dropbox.html)
- [Using Dropbox as a private GitHub](http://jetheis.com/blog/2013/02/17/using-dropbox-as-a-private-github/)
- [What you should not do](http://xkcd.com/1296/)

# Website preparation

Software Carpentry has a [GitHub repository](https://github.com/swcarpentry/bc)
which explains how to generate a website and host it on GitHub.
[Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/), which is the static site generator of choice
for GitHub, is written in Ruby, but
[Pelican](http://docs.getpelican.com/en/3.4.0/index.html) is a good alternative
written in Python for that. It uses [Pygments](http://pygments.org/) for code
syntax highlighting. A detailed explanation about how to publish on GitHub with
Pelican is available [here](http://docs.getpelican.com/en/3.4.0/tips.html).

# Bioinformatic course existing at Utu

There is a Master's program at UTU on
[Bioinformatics](https://nettiopsu.utu.fi/opas/tutkintoOhjelma.htm?rid=22413&uiLang=fi&lang=en&lvv=2014).

*Please note that we do not intend this course to be a bioinformatic course:
our objective is only to expose researchers who have to use computer tools for
their research but do not have a formal IT education to some key concepts for a
better use of their tools.*
